I know that, uh, everybody's probably
ready to jump into their activities
that they have going on this weekend.
I know we have several people that are
traveling out this weekend and as they're
texting me that they're gonna be gone.
I'm like, I envy you a little bit,
cuz some people are on the beach.
Some people are with family.
Uh, but I know some of
you guys have some plans.
I know we do as well tomorrow,
so I'm excited to go do that.
So, um, excited to be here with you
guys today, um, to be able to jump
into God's word, we're gonna be in
first Peter today, um, in chapter one.
And so if you guys wanna go ahead and
turn there first Peter chapter one, we'll
also have it up on the screen as well.
so you guys can see it.
We're probably gonna end up going through
about verse 16, uh, going through this
pretty quick, but, um, we just got done
finishing a couple weeks ago, walking
through the book of first Timothy.
And so we're gonna take some time to
just jump into some different texts
over the next several Mo uh, several
weeks before we jump into a new series.
And this is actually interesting,
uh, one that, uh, me and
Noah walked through a little.
As he was preparing to walk through
with, um, Ashton for a little bit.
Um, and then also as I was going
back over just studying this
week, um, this popped back up.
And so it's those moments where you
go, okay, God, are you speaking to me?
And today I believe that's what God was
doing is he was setting up today as a
day for, um, that all of us, something
that we need to, to, to see in this.
And so, um, what we're gonna be
talking about is this idea behind hope.
Fully, uh, and it's kind of bringing
this word hopefully, uh, and breaking
it apart and looking at how we can
have hope fully, not partially.
So let me ask this question.
I love asking questions.
How many of yous have said this?
I hope so.
Anybody ever say, like, I hope
so, or like maybe, you know, I,
I I'm, I think it might happen.
So we're hoping that
something might happen.
And I, let me ask this question.
Anybody ever felt hopeless at times?
Like you feel like there's no
way something's gonna work out.
I know those are two things
that I've said before.
I hope so.
So I'm not really sure or I'm hopeless,
which means I am totally even just not,
I don't believe anything's gonna happen.
Well, I believe in this text today
that we can understand that through
God, we can hope fully in him and
in the work that he wants to do.
In us and through us, that's something
that encourages me is that even in those
times, whenever I, I wonder what God is
doing, God is working fully through me.
Um, and this really comes from
first Peter chapter one, verse 13.
I wanna read this just before we
read the whole text, but it says
this in first, Peter, one 13, it
says, therefore, preparing your minds
for action and being sober mind.
Set your hope fully on the grace
that has been brought to you at
the revelation of Jesus Christ.
So I know this, um, as a church, as an
individual for you, my desire is for
all of us to experience Christ fully.
Uh, and I believe the only way that
we'll do that is if we have faith
fully in Christ fully, uh, alone.
And so I'm ready to do that and
ready to jump into this text today.
So if you find your place, let's
jump in, we'll read the whole.
First part of first Peter, up to verse
16, and then we'll, we'll dive in.
So it says this, it says Peter and
apostle of Jesus Christ to those chosen
living as exiles dispersed abroad
and Ponti Galatia cap, CAPA decia,
uh, Asia Bethany chosen according to
the fore knowledge of God, the father
through the sanctity sanctifying work
of the spirit to be obedient and to be
sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ.
May grace and peace be multiplied to.
Blessed be the God and the
father of our Lord Jesus Christ
because of his great mercy.
He has given us a new birth
into a living hope through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ from
the dead and into this inheritance
that is imperishable and defiled.
And in fading kept in heaven for you.
You are being guarded by God's power
through faith for salvation that is
ready to be revealed in this last.
You're rejoice in this, even though
now for a short time, if necessary, you
suffer grief in various trials, so that
your proven character of your faith
more valuable than gold, which though,
um, though perishable is refined by
fire may result in praise, glory honor.
At the revelation of Jesus Christ.
Though you have not seen him.
You love him though.
You've not seen, uh,
though you not seen him.
Now, you believe in him and you rejoice
with inexpressible and glorious joy
because you are receiving the goal of
your faith, the salvation of your souls.
Concerning the salvation, the
prophets who prophesied about
the grace that would come to you,
searched and carefully investigated.
They inquired into the time of what
circumstances, the spirit of Christ within
them was indicating that he be testified
in advance to the sufferings of Christ
and to the glory that would follow.
It was revealed to them that
they were not serving themselves,
but these, but, but you, these
things have now been announced to.
Through those who preach the gospel to you
by the holy spirit sent from heaven angels
long to catch a glimpse of these things.
Therefore with your
minds ready for action.
Be so reminded, set your hope completely,
or hopefully on the grace to be brought
to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ
as obedient children do not be conformed
to the desires of your ignorance, but as
ones who are called as holy, you are to
be holy in your conduct for it is written.
Be holy because I am.
Let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We just pray Lord that your word,
uh, will not return void today.
So I pray that as it was read Lord,
that it begins to sink into our heart.
And as we begin to walk through it and
apply to our life, Lord, I pray that
you reveal what needs to be, um, added
to our life Lord, and that we'll be
reminded of what you've done for us
and what you desire to do through us.
And so we pray this in your heavenly name.
So as we jump into this, I'm gonna be
covering these 16 verses pretty lightly.
There's some things that we're gonna
jump into deeper and some things
we're not going to, but one of the
things I, I love being able to do
is we're jumping into this book.
Um, the first couple of verses,
a lot of times we can kind
of just look at, ah, this is.
Peter and I'm writing to these people
and this is where we're at, and this
is great, but I think it's important
to kind of set this text up and
actually walk through a couple things.
So, Peter, if most of you would probably
know this, if you have read the Bible
at all, Peter is one of the apostles.
Um, he was actually the rock, right.
That Jesus was gonna build the church on.
Um, and something that we know about Peter
is that God used Peter despite his broken.
Anybody ever feel like you're
inadequate to be used for God's glory.
Like you feel like, Hey God, can't use me.
I'm not good enough there.
There's there's just, you know,
something's always wrong with me.
There's always something
I, I know I can't do.
I'm not smart.
I'm not talented.
I'm confused.
Whatever it is.
You wonder, can God use you?
Well, God used Peter to write
this book and to change people.
Um, You remember the first
sermon that he preached over 3000
people get their lives to Christ.
And so God uses broken people.
So if we look at Peter's
life, he questioned Jesus.
Multiple times, he broke promises.
He denied Jesus, and he went
back to his old way of living.
When he was fishing before Jesus gave him
his command to send him off, to use him.
But still God used him.
So that's just something I sitting here
think is we're jumping into this book.
God uses broken people,
so God can still use us.
So we can hope fully that God
can still use us despite our
downfalls missing the mark.
But there was something
else that I'll look to this.
He says, he's talking to the
exiles who are dispersed well,
these exiles, or if you would look
at these are pilgrims as well.
They are outside of their home.
They've.
Basically away from their permanent home.
And if you wanna look in from a
spiritual standpoint, these exiles
are actually away from their
permanent home, which is in heaven.
Um, and as you think about that for
us, if we're looking at this today,
we're all pilgrims, we're all exiles
because our permanent home is in heaven.
And so as we're living that way, we
tend to live in a place that seems
a little bit uncomfortable, a little
bit out of what we want or we desire,
which is an eternal home with.
Uh, and because of that, I
think we can relate to who
Peter's writing to we're exiles.
But just, if you look at this
specifically, uh, these believers
were having difficulties and
these difficulties, weren't
just like, Hey, we're getting
killed or we're getting beat up.
These difficulties were people just didn't
like the way that these believers were
living, some of the convictions, they had
some of the beliefs that they had does
it, does it, does that sound a little bit
familiar to you guys today that it seems
like at times as believers, as followers
of Jesus, That it seems like we're the
only ones that can't have an opinion.
The only ones that can't have a belief
that doesn't match up with the worlds.
And so do you know, this is
not me just to knock the world.
This is me to just say at times it's
difficult just to get push back on
what you believe and what you don't
believe as, as a follower of Christ,
but that's what happens to us.
And so these believers were
dealing with the same things.
So as Peter's writing this to
them, he's writing this to us.
And so what I realized as
I begin to think about.
Um, and this is why I just wanting to
set up this text is when we get pushback
on our beliefs, how can we respond?
There's two ways we can respond.
I was actually talking to somebody the
other day at the gym that I coach at.
And at this gym, they were talking about
somebody that was basically bashing
them for some of the things that they
believed and they wanted to be angry and
they wanted to be able to fight back.
And here's what I said.
Well, you could, but then you
would become the person that
they already think you are.
But what if you responded differently,
what if you responded like Christ did?
What if you love them?
What if you showed compassion?
What if you forgave them?
What do you think that would do?
Oh, well that would.
That would probably shut them up because
then they wouldn't have anything.
Absolutely.
So that was just something that I
started thinking through here is at
times as we're being persecuted is
these people were being persecuted.
As Peter's writing to them, we
have two ways we can respond
outta love or out of hate.
And when we respond out of love,
it really shows who Christ is,
but there was something else.
And again, I'm just trying to set
this text up as he's writing these
people, he's writing these people
in all these different areas.
I'm not gonna reread them because I
probably will pronounce them wrong.
But all these areas are
in present day Turkey.
It's interesting.
When you look at this, he's writing to all
these believers in present day Turkey, but
if you were to go and look, uh, and look
at research less than 1%, it's probably
about a half a percent of the people
living in Turkey today are believers.
So in Peter's time, there was
more believers probably there
than there are currently.
That is crazy to think about how something
can have such a gospel presence years
and years ago and how it can lose it.
What happened?
It's because people begin to be less
and less passionate about who Jesus
is less and less passionate about
the message of the gospel going out.
And so I just was challenging myself.
How do you avoid maybe Hamilton,
Ohio, or wherever you live?
How do you avoid seeing
whenever you get older?
Whenever you pass on that this
city does not become darker.
Less like Christ, but it becomes
more like Christ that more
people come to know Christ.
And I believe there's a
couple of different things.
Number one, as churches,
we need to have unity.
And the reason why I say that
is whenever this unity happens
is, you know what happens?
We don't go outside the doors.
We focus more inside the walls,
so we need to focus more outside.
Right?
That's the other, that
would be the second one.
Number two is that we focus more
of our time talents and treasures
outside than more on Sunday mornings.
And the other is by each one
of us owning the mission.
And I know again, we're wondering
where are we going with this
text, but I wanted to set this up.
This is a people that had a lot of
believers before and does not have a lot.
We don't wanna become that as
a church and as a community.
So we wanna fight against
that by owning the mission.
Each one of us owning the mission
that God has given us to inspire
hope, to challenge people, to know
Jesus and to live out their faith.
Um, and then the last thing that he
talks about here in verse two is he's
talking about, he says the inverse one,
he says chosen, these people were chosen.
These exiles chosen, according to
God's fore knowledge of God, the
father through the sanctifying
work of the spirit to be obedient.
and I wanna start there.
That's really gonna launch us off into
this message that God has called us
as exiles pilgrims out of darkness,
out of the world and into the light,
into be a child of God to be obedient.
Does, does anybody like, whenever
you think of the word obedience,
does that sound exciting to you?
It doesn't.
It really doesn't.
And, and here's the reason why most
of us think somebody's trying to tell
me what to do when I don't wanna do.
but let me just kind of step out
there a little bit to challenge
you a little bit on that word.
Obedient the word obedience.
Whenever I started thinking about
obedience within my family's life,
I want my kids to be obedient.
Not because I want them to suffer,
but because I wanna protect them and
I want them, I want, I wanna love 'em.
So I'm saying, Hey, don't go outside
and run in the middle of the road.
I want you to obey me
because they disobey me.
You, you go well, that's logical.
what, what about, what about not
touching the hot oven and when
they do, they burn their hands in.
I just want you to obey me.
Why?
Cuz I'm trying to protect
you from burning your hand.
See that's obedience.
Not.
Hey, I want to go, you know, do this
fun thing and I'm like, no, obey me.
That's not what I'm typically saying
when we're talking about OB obedience.
So when we're looking here and Peter's
writing to people who were called out
of, uh, uh, out of the darkness into
the light to go be obedient, it's not
to go do things that, which you hate.
It's to go do things in
which is valuable for you.
God knows what's good for you.
So as your father, your heavenly
father, he is saying, be obedient,
follow the things that I have for
you, which is better than what
you could do alone, apart from me.
And the reason why I think this sets
up this text is because if we don't
see that God has called us to be
obedient, everything that follows.
Doesn't mean anything to us, but it
means so much to us when we see this.
So let's kind of jump into starting at
verse three, Peter shares, how we should
live as obedient followers of Jesus.
The first one in verse
is three through five.
He talks about how we should live.
Hope fully, not somewhat with hope
or occasionally or every once in
a while, but fully, completely.
And so he says here blessed be
the godfather of our Lord Jesus
Christ because of his great mercy.
He has given us a new birth into a
living hope through the resurrection
of Jesus Christ from the dead.
One of the things I'm challenged with
this, when we look at this word living.
it's it's logical, but I want us to
think a little bit differently with this.
He says a living hope, not a dead
one, a living hope, not a tired one,
exhausted one, a slow hope, an occasional
hope, but a living active hope.
So when I think about a living, hope
anybody ever seen those kids, that just
seem like that they had energy all day.
Laura has a few, um, but a just
great example there, but it's those
kids that just don't run out of.
What I would say is those
kids are living, right.
They seem to always just have energy.
And here's what typically happens.
People will say, I wish
I had their energy.
Do you know, sometimes let's go
back to this spiritual example.
There's sometimes I'm seeing people who
are so sold out for Jesus and I see them
living hope fully, and I'm going, man.
I wish I had that.
Man.
Well, this is what Peter's telling us is
because of what Jesus has done for us.
We can experience.
We can experience the living hope that
he gives us where we can have that
energy, but how do we experience it?
That's always the hard part.
How do we experience it is by
reminding ourselves of these
truths, by reading the word of God,
why do we read the word of God?
The word of God reminds
us of God's truths.
And the more that we think on something,
the more that we live something.
And I'm just challenging myself in
this idea that the more that we think
on something, the more that we become
that, right, the more that we live.
so a living hope has life in it, right?
Here's the one thing that's hard thinking
about whenever it comes to a living hope
with Jesus, it gets better over time.
I want you to think through this.
It's just like, to me, I believe
marriage gets better over time.
The more that I know my wife,
the more that I love her.
See, I believe a relationship with Christ.
The more that you spend time with them,
the more that you experience who Jesus
is, the closer that you get to him.
Even the older you get in age,
the closer you get to spend an
eternity with him, it gets better.
But let me give you the exact opposite.
If you don't have a hope in Jesus,
which means you don't have a hope
after this life, the older you get.
the more that life fades away from
you, what you're trying to cling
onto, and you're losing hope.
You become hopeless because less time on
the earth and less money that you have
and less time to experience this life,
you become hopeless apart from Christ.
So when we see this living hope it is
something that we get to experience
completely now and in eternity.
And that's something that gives us
hope as we continue to look at this.
But for some, you know, you
experience this at a young age.
I know some people that have
given their life right before
they passed away as well.
And I there's a couple of people that I've
actually heard these stories where they
gave their life right before they died.
Here's what they said.
I wished I would've done it sooner.
Why?
Because they would've got to experience
a living hope their whole life, rather
than just an eternity with God, their
whole life, they missed out on that
living hope throughout their whole life.
One of the things that I love
is that we don't have to wait
till heaven to receive it.
And this is where we see in verse
four, where it says, um, that
we receive this living hope.
And then in verse four, it says an into
an inheritance that is imperishable
undefiled unfading kept in heaven
for you and inheritance anybody ever
been given an inheritance, anybody.
Nope.
I've known some people that's been
given inheritance and sometimes the
inheritance they get is a load of cash.
Sometimes it's a house and sometimes
it's just a nice little watch.
Okay.
But an inheritance is usually something
given to you when someone passes away.
Well, again, let's look at what Jesus did.
Jesus died and rose again.
Jesus gave us his
inheritance eternal life.
Now not only in eternity and
that challenges me guys, that
we get to experience Jesus.
Now the hope now, and in eternity,
we don't have to wait at all,
but this inheritance is so
important for us to look at.
He says, this inheritance we get
from a living hope is imperishable,
which means it never goes away.
It's undefiled, which means it's perfect.
It's unfading which.
Always new and it's kept in
heaven where it can never be lost.
I'm gonna say that again, this
living hope is imperishable.
It will never, ever, ever
go away ever, ever, ever.
It is.
Unfiled and perfect.
I'll tell you this.
Every single time we just got a house that
was just got done, built, being built.
The moment.
It was perfect was the
moment it was finished.
And the moment we stepped foot
in it, it is not perfect anymore.
There's more deans in this house than we
had before because we move stuff in and
it kind of frustrates me, but then it
reminds me, there's nothing, this side of
heaven that is perfect outside of Jesus.
So this living hope
that we have is perfect.
And it's unfading meaning
that it's always new.
It'll never wear.
And it's kept where to never be lost
because I'll, here's, I'm just, I'm gonna
lean in more into this example, guys.
Do you know how many times in the
last three days, since we moved
in this house, I couldn't find
what, what I had packed anywhere.
It was lost with the living hope.
Is never lost.
It's always found in Jesus.
It's always present no matter where you're
at, no matter what you're going through.
So that encourages me.
And then he says in verse five, he
says, you are being guarded by God's
power through faith for salvation.
That is ready to be
revealed at the last time.
So no matter what happens this
side of heaven, God will guard this
inheritance for you with his power.
Start thinking about.
Today's society.
We're talking about inflation and we're
talking about the stock market going down.
That may not be you, but I'm living in
the world where that matters, because
it seems like I'm paying more money
for gas than I've ever paid in my life.
But if I put my hope in the government
or in my financial advisor to
protect or to keep my inheritance
right now, they're failing majorly.
So I'm thankful I don't have
to do that with my eternity.
Because my eternity is kept
in heaven with God's power.
So I don't have to worry about
having confidence in anything else
other than Jesus, but Jesus gives us
the confidence and the freedom and
inspiration to go live fully for him.
And for the sake of others, the challenge
that I want to ask you is we begin to
continue to go through this message.
What is holding you back?
What is holding you back from
experiencing the life that God has
called you to God wants you to live.
he wants you to experience hope
fully, but too many times we
wake up, we wake up defeated.
I've been there.
We wake up discouraged.
I get it.
But God desires today to give you the
hope fully that he desires for us to be
able to experience his call in our life.
and to change others' lives.
So let's go into the second point, right?
So Peter shares how we should live
our life's hope fully in verses three
through five, but here's another
thing he kind of goes on a little
bit, step further to live our lives,
hope fully, why while we're suffering.
And this is in verses six and seven,
six says this, it says you rejoicing.
This living hope even though for a
short time, if necessary, you suffer
grief in various trials so that your
proven character of your faith more
valuable than gold, which is through
perishable is refined by fire may
result in the praise, honor glory at
the, at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
Do you ever wonder why bad things happen?
Anybody?
All the time, all the time.
I ask those questions all the time.
Not only what, why is this
happening in the world?
But typically, because I'm a
very selfish person, I ask this
question, why is it happening to me?
Why me?
Why not?
So, and so he doesn't love Jesus.
I don't like him.
I mean, anyways, I'm not that person.
Yes I am.
But you know, we typically
ask these questions.
Why do these things happen?
right.
But Paul is reminding us this, despite
these things happening, we can rejoice
in what the living hope that we've
received, even though we've experienced.
Hard trials.
This is the, the thing I wanna say
is as a Christian or as a believer,
every one of us experiences trial.
What's the difference.
You wanna know what the difference is
that I have a living hope in Jesus,
despite my circumstances, because
no matter what I lose this side of
heaven, I'll never lose my salvation.
I'll never lose my eternity with God.
Then Harrison said he gave me, but,
but if you're an unbeliever, And you
don't have living hope and you lose
everything here, you lose your money,
you lose your job, you lose your life,
whatever it is, you have nothing.
And that's not me being like, I'm just
trying to say the reality is as believers,
we have something to celebrate that.
Even though we have suffering, we
can experience this hope that God
gives us fully how he gives us.
Right.
Despite our circumstances,
God still is good.
So if we truly believe that we have
faith, Fully in God, we can truly
understand that God will continue to
build us up and use us for his glory.
And so here, let me just
challenge you with this
statement in the midst of trials.
Typically we ask why, why, well, God is
doing something in you and through you.
And I wanna share this verse, Luke
1247 says this from everyone who has
been given much, much will be required.
And from the one who has been
entrusted with much, even
much more will be expected.
As we've experienced a living
hope as we've experienced hope
fully, God has given that to us.
And the more that he gives that to
us, the more that he expects of us.
Well, what do you mean will trials?
Actually produce something in us.
It challenges us and grows us.
And so some of the greatest trials that
I have every week are physical trials.
Again, I work at a gym and I help
coach and typically work out.
And what happens in the midst of that
workout, my body is going through a
trial, but what happens whenever that
trial's over, I begin to get stronger.
And you say what?
This trial's meant for me to get stronger.
In my faith.
Yes, absolutely.
And it says this in James, this is verse
seven, kind of even talks more about this.
What's the purpose of our trials, James,
uh, chapter one versus two through
four says, consider it a great joy.
My brothers and sisters, whenever you
experience various trials, because you
know that the testing of your faith
produces endurance and let endurance
have its full effect so that you may
be mature and complete lacking nothing.
So our trials and our faithfulness
will produce something in us and will
make us better, stronger, and able to
give praise and glory to God because
we were faithful and did not give up.
Here's the another thing that I want,
I want, I've thought about this.
When I go through a trial, there's someone
waiting for me on the other side of that
trial for me to help them get through it.
What, what if your trial is, uh, an
ability to minister to somebody else?
Or what, if your trials, an ability
for the church to minister to you?
Sometimes we don't
realize the big picture.
Our perspectives are limited.
Issues struggle, depression,
financial issues, marriage issues.
They're right in front of us.
And we say, oh, what are you doing Lord?
And the Lord says, but
my perspective's here.
And I see that that trial will produce
something in you and will change
those around you, depending upon your
faithfulness and your hope fullness in me.
See, I can preach that, but at times
I struggle to believe that why?
Because it's difficult.
It's tough.
So what do we do?
We continue to lean on one.
That's why we're here today.
I don't know why you're here.
I'm here because I need you guys and,
and I hope that you need me and I
hope we need each other because we're
here to build one another up and
to remind ourselves of these truths
so that we can leave outta here.
More hopeful that we can
completely understand God and
who he is and what he is doing.
So our stories of faithfulness can
change the lives of those around us.
I want you to, to remember that, and
this is one of my statements I've been
cling to over the last couple months.
God's faithfulness in the past
gives me confidence of his
faithfulness now and in the future.
So if you've struggled at times to
wonder if God is faithful, thank there's
some moments where God has shown up.
And when he has shown up clinged
those cuz there's gonna be some times
where you wonder what God's doing
and you'll be half to confidence.
What he's done in the past to
help you in the, in the future.
So our trials have a purpose, just life.
It does for athletes who suffer
during training, but it's for a
greater purpose so that they can
win the prize of a championship.
So the same thing for us as we
suffer it's to win the prize
of honor and glory for God.
and the benefit of us and others.
So Peter shares how we should
live, hopefully how we should
live, hopefully while suffering.
And then how he, he says this in verses
eight through 12, and I'm gonna run
through this pretty quickly, but he
says how we can live hopefully now.
So if you look at verse eight, that
says, though, you have not seen him.
Speaking of Jesus, you love him though.
Not seeing him.
Now you believe in him and you rejoice
with inexpressible, glorious joy.
See, I think at times we.
May go back to, to maybe what I've
said, or I think I may have said this
to our core team earlier, but it's
this idea behind we are looking for
something to be excited about and we
don't experience what God has for us now.
So again, you probably
have been here before.
You've, you've been to college
and you're like, man, whenever
I get my degree, whenever I get
married, when I make that right.
Whenever I have this many kids, well,
my kids grew up to this age, whatever
it is that you may be thinking,
you're kind of pursuing for that.
That's gonna give you happiness.
Here's let me give you something.
You're gonna get there.
And it's gonna be a little bit further
and you're gonna get there and you're
gonna need a little bit more money you're
gonna get there and that education's
not gonna be what you thought it was.
You're gonna get there and it's
still gonna be the same, you and
Jesus, and a lot of trials at times.
So stop.
Looking for, and let me just
challenge you on this stop.
Just waiting for heaven, man.
I can't wait to get to heaven.
Here's thing I wanna get to heaven too,
but right now we can experience heaven.
Jesus lives inside every single
person that's given their life to
him and we can experience hope now.
And an eternity with God.
Don't miss that.
That's what he's saying here.
Why, why is he saying here?
He kind of walks through this
quickly, but even though again,
we can't see Jesus physically.
We love him and we trust him by
faith and we are receiving the
goal of our faith by receiving the
salvation of our souls right now.
Right.
This is our inheritance, but
versus 10 through 12, talk about
the profits, which if you go to
the old Testament, the profits,
we're prophesying about everything
that we're experiencing right now.
They were prophesying about this,
realizing that what they were prophesying
about, they wouldn't experience, but we
would, but then it goes on at the end of
verse 12, and it talks about the angels.
And I love this.
It says the angels long to
catch a glimpse of these things.
Even the angels wanna see what
God is doing by living in our
lives and using us and to have a
personal relationship with him.
So the prophets and the angels
are a little bit envious of us.
That's really what it's saying.
So think about this.
The group before that's planning, you
know, help being a part of the plan
of God's plan that's happening right
now, wanted to see what was happening.
And so sometimes again, I'm just telling
you, at times I catch myself peering
into the future, hoping for something in
the future when I should be hopeful now.
There is something we're celebrating.
Now.
God is doing the work in our lives.
Now he wants to change your lives.
Now he wants to use you.
Now.
He wants you to know him, his
peace and his hope and all
the joy that he gives now.
But you may be a lot like me.
You probably are a lot like me.
We wonder how the heck
can we experience it now?
Right.
I, I think at times it's like, you
want that, but it's always fleeting.
You never can grab hold of.
So I I've been reading
Ecclesiastes lately.
And if anybody's familiar with
that, he talks a lot about that.
Grasping after some things that
we think will fulfill us is like
grasping at the air every time
we think we have it, it's gone.
So at times what's happening is we
want this relationship with Jesus.
We wanna be all in.
We wanna be hope fully, but we're
grasping at worldly things that
will never fulfill us when only
thing that can fill us is Jesus.
Jesus his presence in our lives.
His hope that he gives us grace and
mercy, he forgives us of our sins.
He, he forgives us forever messing up,
cuz it seems like I'm always messing up.
And he says, despite what I've done,
just like Peter, I will use you.
That's what Peter was trying
to tell these people, Hey,
you're in the middle of trials.
Don't give up.
I mean experience the
hope, the living hope.
Now don't miss it.
Don't wait until you're
not exiles anymore.
Don't wait until maybe you
get to go back to your home.
Don't wait, experience it now.
So as believers and unbelievers,
it's easy to get distracted from
experience the hope fully now, but
God has extended that to us today.
It is now the, the last thing
that he talks about here, and
this is verses 13 through.
As he challenges us to
live, hopefully focused.
This is that distraction piece.
I was kind of talking about here.
So he says this in verse 13, therefore
with your minds ready for action, be
sober minded and set your hope completely
or fully on the grace to be brought to
you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
We have received this living hope
to live fully for the Lord in his.
And he talks about this word focus
and, and guys, I I'm the person
that thinks I can multitask.
You ever studied about
that when you multitask?
You're actually not
really accomplishing more.
You're you're just more distracted,
but I like to multitask because I
think it just seems to fulfill me, but
he says to focus, to have our minds
ready and clear with no distractions.
And I, I think of no distractions.
Anybody ever watched a horse race?
Anybody?
What, what do the horses
have on their eyes?
Why.
Keeps them focused.
They don't get distracted guys at times.
This is, this is what I
believe Jesus is saying.
I believe this is what Paul's saying.
Hey, y'all, it's a crazy world
out there and it's difficult, but
Jesus has given you a live in hope.
Put on your blinders, focus in on me.
Get your minds ready.
Set your hope completely on me, the
grace that I gave you, it's a challenge.
It's difficult, but he's
challenging us to do this.
And when we do, then he challenges
as this, it comes back to verse
14, which pushes back to verse two.
And he says this as obedient
children do not be conformed to
the desires of former or ignorance.
Those blinders are there for you to
not go back and try to grasp the wind.
which is grass worldly, things
that you think will fulfill you.
He says, don't go back to that because
if you do, it's hopeless, but if you
put on your blinders, if you focus,
if you set your minds on the grace
and the mercy that I brought to you,
this living hope you will be obedient.
You will be following after
the, the plans that he has for.
The plan's not just for you, but for
those around you to change the lives
of those around you at inspiring hope,
we challenge people to discover their
purpose through a relationship with Jesus.
We believe every person has a purpose
through a relationship with Jesus.
And the more that we pursue Jesus,
the more that he reveals that.
So basically with these
verse, I'm gonna reverse 16.
I'm gonna kind of summarize this
up, but in verses 15 and 16, he
says, but as one who is holy.
You are also to be holding your conduct
for it is written behold because
I'm holy and wholly only means set.
Right set apart for the work of God.
So basically what Peter is saying
here is don't let your past hold you
back from experience the future that
God has for you to change the world.
The writer of this letter, Peter would
totally understand this statement.
I love when the Bible is written by
people who are not writing out of no
experience, but complete experience.
When somebody gives me advice, I
don't want somebody to give me advice,
advice based upon what they read in a.
. I want them to give me advice
based upon what they've lived.
That's the type of mentors I want.
And that's the type of
people I wanna read after.
Well, Peter Deni, Jesus, you guys
remember us talking about that?
At the beginning, he denied Jesus.
He went back fishing again, back to
his old ways and it wasn't fulfilling.
He wasn't really catching any fish either.
Let's look what happened
in John 21, 15 through 19.
So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus
asked Simon and this is after Jesus
came out, hollered at him to come.
He was, they came in from the boat
and he decided to cook them breakfast.
But he says when they had eaten
breakfast, Jesus asked Simon
Peter's son, uh Simon's son of John,
do you love me more than these?
And Peter says, yes, Lord.
You know that I love you.
And Jesus said, feed my lambs.
And the second time he asked them,
Simon son, John, do you love me?
Yes, Lord.
He said to him, you know that I love you.
He said, shepherd, my.
he asked him a third time.
Simon's son.
John, do you love me?
And Peter was greed.
When he asked him a third
time, do you love me?
He said, Lord, you know everything,
you know that I love you.
Feed my sheep.
Jesus said to him, truly.
I tell you when you were
younger, you were tied.
Your, you tied your bell and walked
wherever you wanted, but you grow alt.
When you grow old, you will stretch out
your hands and someone else will tie you
and carry you where you don't want to go.
He said this to indicate what kind
of death Peter would glorify God.
And after saying this,
he told him to follow me.
Why do I bring this example up?
Peter is someone who messed up.
He's someone who was not perfect.
He's someone who you and me
may relate with really well
and wondering can God use me?
And despite Peter's background,
Jesus still pursued Peter.
Even when he did go back.
To his way of living before.
And here's what Jesus
is saying to us today.
Come back.
And he's gonna challenge
you with this statement.
Do you love me?
And the question you may say
is I've given my life to Jesus.
Yes, Jesus.
I love you.
And you're gonna kind of be like, okay.
And then Jesus is gonna
say again, do you love me?
And you're gonna go well.
Yes, yes.
I love you.
I gave my life to you maybe 10
years ago or 20 years ago or
five years ago or yesterday.
Yes.
I love you Lord.
And he may say it one more time,
which may kind of make you frustrated.
Do you love me?
And the reason why he's saying this is
he's saying this, are you sure that you
love me, that you're ready and willing
to experience the plan I have for you?
And Peter said yes.
And you may say yes, and
here's what Jesus is gonna say.
It's gonna take obedience.
And that obedience may be where in your
previous time it was easy, but in your
future time for Peter, it was difficult.
Peter lived a difficult life
with other trials and he
ended up dying for his faith.
Jesus may not call you to die for
your faith, but he's gonna say
this, the path forward may get
difficult, but he says, follow me.
Why?
Because our inheritance, our living hope.
We can receive now.
And in the future, it is kept by
God's power and it is something that
God desires you to experience now.
And I, I, I wanna, I wanna kind
of finish up this way guys, every
day that we wake up feeling over
overly burdened by our faith is the
moment that the enemy's creeped in.
And he's trying to fool
you that you're not enough.
But here's what God is saying.
You now can live freely for him
because you have your blinders on you.
Minds are focused on him, the hope
fully that he has given you, Peter
shared straight from his experience
to us on how we can follow and live
after God fully, even while we're
suffering, even now, not just waiting
for eternity, but focused on Jesus.
So I wanna end with this is we have in.
I guess I really wanna
challenge you with this.
What is holding you back from living the
life that Jesus has called you to live?
Peter was writing this letter.
He's writing this to people
who were struggling in their
faith because they were exile.
He was reminding them
in their living hope.
He was reminding them despite their
circumstances that God can still use them.
God wants to change them
for them to be obedient.
What is it that's holding you.
because I I'm telling you, we need
to wake up every day asking this
question, who is waiting on me on
the other side of my obedience.
And we understand obedience.
Isn't a bad thing.
It's a good thing because it's
right where God wants you.
It's the best for your life.
And it's the best for God's plans
for other people around you.
Who is it?
That's waiting for you on the
other side of your obedience.
There's somebody.
So what is holding you back?
During invitation.
I love invitation.
Why?
Because for most of us, it's the only
two to three minutes of the week.
It seems like we get time to
just sit by ourselves and just
think and say, Lord, what is it?
So here's my challenge here in invitation,
Lord, this is what you asked Lord.
What is it that I need to remove
from my life, change in my life
to fulfill the life that you
call me to, to live hope fully.
And I challenge you to
get really honest guys.
Nothing that you can come up with.
Jesus is surprised by because Jesus
knows every thought that you have.
So when you begin to think
through, what's holding you back,
you know it, and he knows it.
So confess it to him.
You know what the Bible talks about.
If we will confess our sins, which
sins are not God's best for you,
if you'll confess your sins and
repent of them and turn from them
that he will quickly forgive you.
Those things will remove some
of the burdens in your life.
That's preventing you from
experiencing what God's called you
to that sin needs to be repented of.
And today you can do that.
Here's something that I'm challenged
by that I could be preaching today
to someone who doesn't know Jesus.
And if you don't know Jesus, and
you're sitting here saying, I want,
hope I wanna be full of who God is.
I wanna experience what
God's called me to.
I wanna experience a life
with hope and peace and joy.
Then it's through a
relationship with Jesus.
If you want to give your life to
Jesus, I would love to talk with you.
My challenge every week is for you to
come and talk to me in the back during
an invitation after service, I would
love to pray with you, talk to you
more about how to give your life to
Jesus, because that is where it starts.
We can't get our lifes right
before we come to Jesus.
We come to Jesus at Jesus
makes our life, right.
Amen.
So I'm gonna pray for us.
So during this time of
invitation, just challenge you.
To ask the Lord, what's holding you
back from experience in life that Jesus
has called you to live and experience.
And for those of you who don't
know Jesus, don't let another day
go by because it's not promised.
Don't let another day go by
before you answer that question.
Do I know Jesus?
And if you don't come talk to me, I'd
love to share with you how to know Jesus.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you.
And we're so thankful Lord for your word.
And for the men and women, Lord
that have gone before us to pave the
way of, um, how to live our lives.
And Lord Peter has taught us today
from his experience that you can
use broken people in exiled places
because you've given every one of them.
And every one of us, a living hope
that is secured for us in eternity
and is an inheritance that is
given to us now to experience.
To experience hope fully, not partially,
not hope so we're not hopeless.
Lord.
We are hope full in you
because God, you are good.
You sent your son Jesus so that
we could experienced that hope.
And because of your sacrifice
of sending your son, Jesus Lord,
let us not leave here today.
Before we receive.
And live in Lord.
What you've called us to live.
Lord.
I pray for every person in this room,
Lord, for their hearts to be open
Lord, as they pray and seek you,
Lord, I pray that you reveal to them.
What's holding them back
from living the life.
Lord, you called them.
Lord, may they take a step of
obedience by repenting up their sins
by taking a step of faith and saying
yes to you in an area of their life.
And then Lord, I challenge them
Lord to tell someone so that
they can be held accountable.
Lord, if there's someone in
this room that doesn't know you,
please, Lord, we're begging.
Break their hearts.
Lord, draw them to you.
Lord.
Don't let them leave today
before they get their lives to
you.
So Lord, we spread this in your, a name.
Amen.